<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?><rss version="2.0" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"><channel><title>Lightning Specification on ₿itcoin Transcripts</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/</link><description>Recent content in Lightning Specification on ₿itcoin Transcripts</description><generator>Hugo -- gohugo.io</generator><language>en</language><lastBuildDate>Mon, 29 Jul 2024 00:00:00 +0000</lastBuildDate><atom:link href="https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/index.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml"/><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1185</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-07-29-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 29 Jul 2024 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-07-29-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1185
Speaker 0: Are we on the pathfinding one or did we pass that?
Speaker 1: I think [redacted] should be attending because they added their new gossip status thing to the agenda. I think they should join soon, but we can start with the verification, where I think it just needs more review to clarify some needs. But apart from that, it looks good to me. 1182. That&amp;rsquo;s the kind of thing we want to get in quickly because otherwise, it&amp;rsquo;s just a mess to rebase everything on top.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1183</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-07-15-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 15 Jul 2024 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-07-15-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1183
Speaker 0: How do you do MPP by the way? For example, you have two blinded paths. You don&amp;rsquo;t even split inside the path.
Speaker 1: We won&amp;rsquo;t MPP. Our new routing rewrite — which is on the back burner while I sort all this out — should be able to MPP across because they give you the capacity. In theory, we could do that. In practice, if you need MPP, we&amp;rsquo;re out.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1161</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-05-06-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 06 May 2024 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-05-06-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1161
Speaker 0: So the next one is go see 12-blocks delay channel closed follow-up. So, this is something we already merged something to a spec, saying that whenever you see a channel being spent on-chain, you should wait for 12 blocks to allow splicing to happen. It&amp;rsquo;s just one line that was missing in the requirement, and then they found it in the older splicing PR. So, there&amp;rsquo;s already three ACKs.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - 1155</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-04-22-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 22 Apr 2024 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-04-22-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1155
Speaker 0: Cool. Okay. They have four or five things that I think are all in line with what we have already as well. First one is the spec-clean up. Last thing we did, I think we reverted one of the gossip changes, and that is going to be in LND 18. Basically, making the feature bits to be required over time. After that, is anything blocking this? I need to catch up with PR a little bit.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - 1152</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-04-08-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 08 Apr 2024 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-04-08-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1152
Speaker 1: Yeah, we did a point release to undo it as well. What I&amp;rsquo;d like to do is to write up the spec changes to basically say: Yeah, don&amp;rsquo;t set the bit if you don&amp;rsquo;t have anything interesting to say — rather than if you don&amp;rsquo;t support it. Yes, my sweep through the network to go: Hey, there&amp;rsquo;s only a few nodes that don&amp;rsquo;t set this. Missed LDK nodes obviously.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1150</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-03-25-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 25 Mar 2024 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-03-25-specification-call/</guid><description>NOTE: There were some issues with the recording of this call, resulting in a partial transcript.
Speaker 0: If you&amp;rsquo;re only connected to a single peer, it makes sense not to tell them that you speak gossip, right? Because you won&amp;rsquo;t have anything interesting to say, and you don&amp;rsquo;t want to — with our current state of gossip queries, they might think they&amp;rsquo;re probing randomly and happen to hit nodes that don&amp;rsquo;t know anything, and fall into a bad state.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1146</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-03-11-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 11 Mar 2024 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-03-11-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1146
Speaker 0: So first item, I just wanted to highlight that I opened the PR for zero reserve, if you want to look at it. I don&amp;rsquo;t know if people are actually trying to implement that. It matches the implementation that we have currently in Eclair and Phoenix, but with a different feature bit. So if someone else is implementing that, they can just have a look at the PR, and we can work on the interop whenever someone is ready.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1142</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-02-26-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 26 Feb 2024 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2024-02-26-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1142
Speaker 0: [redacted] said they won&amp;rsquo;t be able to attend, but they’ve nicely created an agenda for us as usual. So I can take a look and run through the list. First up, so I think this has sort of went back and forth a few times. This is the very long-lived request to just have a zero value in reserve basically, like a first class type. [redacted] made this PR, so it&amp;rsquo;s spec PR 1140.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1127</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/lightning-2024-01-15-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 15 Jan 2024 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/lightning-2024-01-15-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1127
Speaker 0: First of all, it looks like we still have a mailing list. I don&amp;rsquo;t know how much we can rely on that. But, in the meanwhile, nobody has sent any email on the mailing list. I guess we should be migrating to Delving Bitcoin for now. Has someone experimented with running a discourse instance somewhere else? I think it was [redacted] who was supposed to do that.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1118</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-11-20-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 20 Nov 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-11-20-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1118
Speaker 0: We won&amp;rsquo;t have posting for the mailing list anymore in one month and a half, so we should probably do something. My plan was to just wait to see what bitcoin-dev would do and do the same thing. Does someone have opinions on that or an idea on what we should do?
Speaker 1: Who&amp;rsquo;s managing the email account for the lightning-dev mailing list? You, [Redacted]?</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1116</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-11-06-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 06 Nov 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-11-06-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1116
Speaker 0: I moved the first item on the to-do list today, dual funding, because we finally have interop between C-Lightning and Eclair. We were only missing the reestablished part, and everything was mostly okay from the beginning. It looks like the spec seems to be clear enough because we both understood it the same way. So now, we really have full interop on master, and I guess this should go in a release with experimental flags for CLN.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1115</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-10-23-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 23 Oct 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-10-23-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1115
Speaker 0: Alright. So, I guess the first item is something that has already been ACKed and is only one clarification. But I had one question on the PR. I was wondering, [redacted], for which feature you actually use that code because neither LND or Eclair handles — we just disconnect on anything mandatory that we haven&amp;rsquo;t set. Where are you actually using that or how are you planning on using it?</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1114</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-09-25-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 25 Sep 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-09-25-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1114
Speaker 0: So, [redacted] pointed out that we did not do this, and we have to do this. I&amp;rsquo;ve been working on the code so that you have to push their commitment transaction. Now, there are several problems with this. One is that in many states, there are two possible commitment transactions they could have. In theory, you know what they are. In practice, it turned out to be a bit of a nightmare to unwind the state.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1103</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-08-28-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 28 Aug 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-08-28-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1103
Speaker 0: I don&amp;rsquo;t think I&amp;rsquo;ve seen any discussion happening on any of the PRs. So, I don&amp;rsquo;t think we should go and have them in order, except maybe the first one that we may want to just finalize and get something into the spec to say that it should be 2016 everywhere. But, as [redacted] was saying, can probably make it a one-liner and it would be easier.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1101</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-08-14-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 14 Aug 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-08-14-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1101
Speaker 0: Alright, should we start? I want to talk a quick update on dual funding because I&amp;rsquo;ve been working with [redacted] on cross-compatibility tests between Core Lightning and Eclair, and so far, everything looks good. The only part that has not yet been fully implemented in CLN is the reconnection part — when you disconnect in the middle of the signature exchange. This kind of reconnection is supposed to complete that signature exchange with one new TLV added to channel re-establish.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1098</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-07-31-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 31 Jul 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-07-31-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1098
Speaker 0: Great. I guess, does anyone have any urgent stuff that we want to make sure we get to in the meeting today? If not, I&amp;rsquo;m just going to go ahead and start working down the recently updated proposal seeking review list. Great. Okay. First up on the list is option simple close. This is from the summit we had a few weeks ago in July. Looks like [Redacted] and [Redacted] have commented on this and [Redacted] stuff.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1094</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-07-17-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 17 Jul 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-07-17-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1094
Speaker 0: Alright. Does anyone want to volunteer to take us through the list? Nope? Okay. I will read the issue that [Redacted] very kindly left for us then. The first item on the list is Bolt 8’s chaining keys clarification. Is there anything we need to talk about here?
Speaker 1: Yeah. Yes, it&amp;rsquo;s almost under the spelling rule, but I think it&amp;rsquo;s been ACKed by everyone. So, unless people have objections to the specific wording.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1088</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-06-19-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 19 Jun 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-06-19-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1088
Speaker 0: Thanks [Redacted]. So, there isn&amp;rsquo;t much that has changed on any of the PRs that are on the pending to-do list, except for attributable errors. So, maybe since [Redacted] is here, we can start with attributable errors, and [Redacted], you can tell us what has changed about the HMAC truncation, for example.
Speaker 1: Yeah, so not that much changed. Just the realization that we could truncate the HMAC basically, because the failure message was so large already.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1085</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-06-05-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 05 Jun 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-06-05-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1085
Speaker 0: Alright, so let&amp;rsquo;s start. So, the first PR on the list is one we&amp;rsquo;ve already discussed last week. It just needs someone from another team, either Lightning Labs or LDK to hack. It&amp;rsquo;s just a clarification on Bolt 8. So, I don&amp;rsquo;t think it should be reviewed right now because just takes time to work through it and verify that it matches your implementation. But if someone on either of those teams can add it to their to-do list, hack it, and then we can merge it.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1082</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-05-22-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 22 May 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-05-22-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1082
Speaker 1: So, the first PR we have on the list is a clarification on Bolt 8 by [Redacted]. It looks like, if I understand correctly, someone tried to reimplement Bolt 8 and got it wrong, and it&amp;rsquo;s only clarifications. Is that correct?
Speaker 2: Yes. So LN message - a JavaScript library that speaks to nodes - had everything right except for the fact they shared a chaining key, which is correct to start with.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1076</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-05-08-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 08 May 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-05-08-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1076
Speaker 0: First off of the list is dual funding. [Redacted] has merged the two small patches that we had discussed adding. There&amp;rsquo;s only one small patch that is remaining, which is about making the TLV signed to allow for future splicing to make sure that splicing can also use the RBF messages for signed amounts. But apart from that, it looks like dual funding is almost complete. We plan on activating it on our node soon to be able to use it in Phoenix.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1067</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-04-24-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 24 Apr 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-04-24-specification-call/</guid><description>Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1067
Speaker 0: Alright, so first thing I&amp;rsquo;ve got on deck is 1066, which says: Correct final CLTV handling and blinded paths.
Speaker 1: Yeah, I haven&amp;rsquo;t dug as deep into the blinded path stuff, so this may be an incorrect reading that I was confused to. Basically, for a blinded path, we don&amp;rsquo;t have a final CLTV for the recipient because we just have a full CLTV delta for the full blinded path.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1055</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-02-13-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 13 Feb 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-02-13-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1055
Speaker 0: A few people won&amp;rsquo;t be able to attend. I guess we can proceed. Okay. I&amp;rsquo;m going to go down the list that you prepared for this. The first thing being dual funding. I don&amp;rsquo;t know if we have any one involved here at this point.
Speaker 1: All right.
Speaker 0: Last time, both of them were moving closer towards interop.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1053</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-01-30-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 30 Jan 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-01-30-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1053
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Participants that wish to be attributed are welcome to propose changes to the transcript.
Channel Pruning Speaker 2: To be honest, I don&amp;rsquo;t think anything has made a lot of progress since the last spec meeting, so I don&amp;rsquo;t think we should do the topics in order.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0969</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-03-14-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 14 Mar 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-03-14-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/969
BOLT 4: Remove legacy format, make var_onion_optin compulsory https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/962
I think eclair and c-lightning have both removed support for legacy payments.
I’ll probably make a PR to add the feature bit or at least flip it to required. The only wallet I can think of that is somewhat more fringe now is Simple Bitcoin Wallet.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0957</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-02-14-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 14 Feb 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-02-14-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/957
Organizing a Lightning Core Dev meetup I was talking about organizing a face to face Lightning Core Dev meetup. If I understand correctly there has only been one formal one and that was in 2019 in Australia. There has been two?
Milan, the kickoff. There has only ever been two.
That was probably before my time in Bitcoin.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0955</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-01-31-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 31 Jan 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-01-31-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/955
Bitcoin Core funding a transaction without looking at ancestors I have something that I wanted to ask of our implementers who implemented a wallet. It is tangentially related to Lightning especially for anchor outputs. I realized recently that when you ask Bitcoin Core to fund a transaction at a given fee rate it is not going to look at the ancestors and it is not going to take the ancestor’s fee rate into account.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0949</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-01-03-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 03 Jan 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-01-03-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/949
Introduction When people put comments and they are fixed they should mark them as resolved so that we don’t waste time thinking there are lots of outstanding comments and we have to read them again. I think that helps a lot.
I can spend some time doing that.
There are a lot of comments, I’m starting at the bottom to see the things that have maybe not been addressed yet.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0943</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2021-12-06-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 06 Dec 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2021-12-06-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Google Meet
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/943
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Add payment metadata to payment request https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/912
In theory you could have an invoice that is so large that it forces you to use a direct payment.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0936</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2021-11-22-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 22 Nov 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2021-11-22-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Google Meet
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/936
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
BOLT 7 onion message support https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/759
So PR 759 is built on PR 765 because we used the route blinding to decrypt where the end is going to go.</description></item></channel></rss>