<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?><rss version="2.0" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"><channel><title>meeting on ₿itcoin Transcripts</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/categories/meeting/</link><description>Recent content in meeting on ₿itcoin Transcripts</description><generator>Hugo -- gohugo.io</generator><language>en</language><lastBuildDate>Mon, 13 Feb 2023 00:00:00 +0000</lastBuildDate><atom:link href="https://btctranscripts.com/categories/meeting/index.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml"/><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1055</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-02-13-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 13 Feb 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-02-13-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1055
Speaker 0: A few people won&amp;rsquo;t be able to attend. I guess we can proceed. Okay. I&amp;rsquo;m going to go down the list that you prepared for this. The first thing being dual funding. I don&amp;rsquo;t know if we have any one involved here at this point.
Speaker 1: All right.
Speaker 0: Last time, both of them were moving closer towards interop.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 1053</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-01-30-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 30 Jan 2023 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2023-01-30-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1053
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Participants that wish to be attributed are welcome to propose changes to the transcript.
Channel Pruning Speaker 2: To be honest, I don&amp;rsquo;t think anything has made a lot of progress since the last spec meeting, so I don&amp;rsquo;t think we should do the topics in order.</description></item></channel></rss>