<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?><rss version="2.0" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom"><channel><title>meetup on ₿itcoin Transcripts</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/categories/meetup/</link><description>Recent content in meetup on ₿itcoin Transcripts</description><generator>Hugo -- gohugo.io</generator><language>en</language><lastBuildDate>Thu, 11 Aug 2022 00:00:00 +0000</lastBuildDate><atom:link href="https://btctranscripts.com/categories/meetup/index.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml"/><item><title>MuSig2</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2022-08-11-tim-ruffing-musig2/</link><pubDate>Thu, 11 Aug 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2022-08-11-tim-ruffing-musig2/</guid><description>Reading list: https://gist.github.com/michaelfolkson/5bfffa71a93426b57d518b09ebd0998c
Introduction Michael Folkson (MF): This is a Socratic Seminar, we are going to be discussing MuSig2 and we’ll move onto adjacent topics such as FROST and libsecp256k1 later. We have a few people on the call including Tim (Ruffing). If you want to do short intros, you don’t have to, for the people on the call.
Tim Ruffing (TR): Hi. Thanks for having me. I am Tim Ruffing, my work is at Blockstream.</description></item><item><title>ROAST</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/misc/2022-07-14-tim-ruffing-roast/</link><pubDate>Thu, 14 Jul 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/misc/2022-07-14-tim-ruffing-roast/</guid><description>Location: Monash Cybersecurity Seminars
ROAST paper: https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/550.pdf
ROAST blog post: https://medium.com/blockstream/roast-robust-asynchronous-schnorr-threshold-signatures-ddda55a07d1b
ROAST in Python: https://github.com/robot-dreams/roast
Introduction (Amin Sakzad) Welcome everyone to Monash Cybersecurity Seminars. Today we will be having Tim Ruffing. Tim is an applied cryptographer in the research team of Blockstream, a Bitcoin and blockchain technology company. He obtained his PhD from Saarland University researching cryptographic aspects of cryptocurrencies. His current research focus on advanced applications of Schnorr signatures, for example multi and threshold signatures.</description></item><item><title>Sydney Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2022-03-29-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Tue, 29 Mar 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2022-03-29-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Topic: FROST
Location: Bitcoin Sydney (online)
FROST paper: https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/852.pdf
secp256k1-zkp PR: https://github.com/ElementsProject/secp256k1-zkp/pull/138
secp256kfun issue: https://github.com/LLFourn/secp256kfun/issues/85
Ceremonies for Applied Secret Sharing paper: https://cypherpunks.ca/~iang/pubs/mindgap-popets20.pdf
Coinbase blog post: https://blog.coinbase.com/frost-flexible-round-optimized-schnorr-threshold-signatures-b2e950164ee1
Andrew Poelstra presentation at SF Bitcoin Devs 2019: https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2019-02-04-threshold-signatures-and-accountability/
Tim Ruffing presentation at CES Summit 2019: https://btctranscripts.com/cryptoeconomic-systems/2019/threshold-schnorr-signatures/
Introduction Lloyd Fournier (LF): This is going to be a discussion meeting with our very special guest Jesse Posner is going to tell us about what he’s been up to, what he thinks about FROST and its applications to Bitcoin.</description></item><item><title>History of Bitcoin in GAMING</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoinology/history-of-bitcoin-in-gaming/</link><pubDate>Sun, 27 Mar 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoinology/history-of-bitcoin-in-gaming/</guid><description>Intro Christian: Before I start, it&amp;rsquo;s probably a good idea to make sure you have a Lightning wallet downloaded because, at the end, I have some games we can play and actually get some Bitcoin through the games. So if you don&amp;rsquo;t have a Lightning wallet installed, please do so. I recommend my company&amp;rsquo;s wallet, Zebedee. So if you just type in Zebedee on my t-shirt into the Google Play or App Store, you should be able to download it.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0969</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-03-14-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 14 Mar 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-03-14-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/969
BOLT 4: Remove legacy format, make var_onion_optin compulsory https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/962
I think eclair and c-lightning have both removed support for legacy payments.
I’ll probably make a PR to add the feature bit or at least flip it to required. The only wallet I can think of that is somewhat more fringe now is Simple Bitcoin Wallet.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2022-03-07-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 07 Mar 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2022-03-07-developer-call/</guid><description>Name: c-lightning developer call
Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Minisketch and gossip spam I’ve been working on the multi channel connect stuff, trying to not get distracted by Tether talk and other stuff like that.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Network Panel</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2022-03-01-lightning-panel/</link><pubDate>Tue, 01 Mar 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2022-03-01-lightning-panel/</guid><description>Topic: The Lightning Network in 2022
Location: London Bitcoin Devs
Introductions Ali Taylor-Cipolla (ATC): Ali coming in from Coinbase Recruiting. I’d like to introduce to my friend Tiago who is on the Europe side.
Tiago Schmidt (TS): Hello everyone. Quick introduction, sitting in the recruiting team here in London and leading the expansion for engineering hiring across UK and Ireland. Coinbase is in hyper-growth at the moment and we will be looking to hire loads of the people.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0957</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-02-14-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 14 Feb 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-02-14-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/957
Organizing a Lightning Core Dev meetup I was talking about organizing a face to face Lightning Core Dev meetup. If I understand correctly there has only been one formal one and that was in 2019 in Australia. There has been two?
Milan, the kickoff. There has only ever been two.
That was probably before my time in Bitcoin.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0955</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-01-31-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 31 Jan 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-01-31-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/955
Bitcoin Core funding a transaction without looking at ancestors I have something that I wanted to ask of our implementers who implemented a wallet. It is tangentially related to Lightning especially for anchor outputs. I realized recently that when you ask Bitcoin Core to fund a transaction at a given fee rate it is not going to look at the ancestors and it is not going to take the ancestor’s fee rate into account.</description></item><item><title>Cool Lightning Network Developments</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoinology/2022-01-26-igor-korsakov-cool-ln-developments/</link><pubDate>Wed, 26 Jan 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoinology/2022-01-26-igor-korsakov-cool-ln-developments/</guid><description>Synonym Igor Synonym is a company that John Carvalho started and he is trying to put Web3 inside of Bitcoin. But what it consists of? They&amp;rsquo;re using several things like identities and people hosting their own data.
AOPP For identity, the first thing I want to mention is Address Ownership Proof Protocol (AOPP). This is the field that we added in BlueWallet some months ago. I think it was a Switzerland exchange that wanted this, so they sent us a pull request and we merged it (PR#2915, PR#4431).</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2022-01-24-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 24 Jan 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2022-01-24-developer-call/</guid><description>Name: c-lightning developer call
Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Individual updates Still working on the cln stuff. cln is basically the Rust libraries that I am building to interact with c-lightning and which will become the basis for the gRPC interface.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2022-01-10-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 10 Jan 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2022-01-10-developer-call/</guid><description>Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Date: January 10th 2022
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Accounting plugin I have been working on the accounting plugin for the last few months.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0949</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-01-03-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 03 Jan 2022 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2022-01-03-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Jitsi
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/949
Introduction When people put comments and they are fixed they should mark them as resolved so that we don’t waste time thinking there are lots of outstanding comments and we have to read them again. I think that helps a lot.
I can spend some time doing that.
There are a lot of comments, I’m starting at the bottom to see the things that have maybe not been addressed yet.</description></item><item><title>What is Lightning Network?</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoinology/what-is-lightning-network/</link><pubDate>Wed, 15 Dec 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoinology/what-is-lightning-network/</guid><description>Introduction Hello everyone. We&amp;rsquo;re going to sort of soft start now, and this is a new meetup group we&amp;rsquo;ve decided to call Bitcoinology. It&amp;rsquo;s a whimsical name. It&amp;rsquo;s really intended to convey the idea that we want to discuss Bitcoin not in a super developer technical code way, but we do want to discuss it—how it&amp;rsquo;s used, even what the history and culture of it are, and what are the interesting things as a user and as a sort of Bitcoin person you can learn.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-12-13-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 13 Dec 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-12-13-developer-call/</guid><description>Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Enabling multi channel support https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/4984
https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/4985
I have actually been pulling Humpty Dumpty apart. I have a series of like 40 patches which rearchitect the entire way we do c-lightning.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0943</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2021-12-06-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 06 Dec 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2021-12-06-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Google Meet
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/943
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Add payment metadata to payment request https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/912
In theory you could have an invoice that is so large that it forces you to use a direct payment.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-11-29-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 29 Nov 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-11-29-developer-call/</guid><description>Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Date: November 29th 2021
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
CI problems I will note we have been having CI problems.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Specification Meeting - Agenda 0936</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2021-11-22-specification-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 22 Nov 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/lightning-specification/2021-11-22-specification-call/</guid><description>Name: Lightning specification call
Topic: Agenda below
Location: Google Meet
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/936
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
BOLT 7 onion message support https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/759
So PR 759 is built on PR 765 because we used the route blinding to decrypt where the end is going to go.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-11-15-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 15 Nov 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-11-15-developer-call/</guid><description>Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Upgrading c-lightning for Taproot So, Taproot. The one place in the spec where Taproot matters if you are using it as an individual, generally it doesn’t matter where you keep your funds when it is not in a channel, doesn’t affect the spec, except the shutdown case.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar - AssumeUTXO</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2021-11-02-socratic-seminar-assumeutxo/</link><pubDate>Tue, 02 Nov 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2021-11-02-socratic-seminar-assumeutxo/</guid><description>Reading list: https://gist.github.com/michaelfolkson/f46a7085af59b2e7b9a79047155c3993
Intros Michael Folkson (MF): This is a discussion on AssumeUTXO. We are lucky to have James O’Beirne on the call. There is a reading list that I will share in a second with a bunch of links going right from concept, some of the podcasts James has done, a couple of presentations James has done. And then towards the end hopefully we will get pretty technical and in the weeds of some of the current, past and future PRs.</description></item><item><title>Sydney Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2021-11-02-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Tue, 02 Nov 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2021-11-02-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Name: Socratic Seminar
Topic: Package relay
Location: Bitcoin Sydney (online)
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Agenda: https://github.com/bitcoin-sydney/socratic/blob/master/README.md#2021-11
Package Mempool Accept and Package RBF: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2021-September/019464.html
With illustrations: https://gist.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-11-01-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 01 Nov 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-11-01-developer-call/</guid><description>Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
c-lightning v0.10.2 release https://medium.com/blockstream/c-lightning-v0-10-2-bitcoin-dust-consensus-rule-33e777d58657
We’ve tagged RC1 to get people testing. The testing found 2 regressions, both related to the database handling.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-10-18-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 18 Oct 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-10-18-developer-call/</guid><description>Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Date: October 18th 2021
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
c-lightning v0.10.2 release https://medium.com/blockstream/c-lightning-v0-10-2-bitcoin-dust-consensus-rule-33e777d58657
We are nominally past the release date.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-10-04-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 04 Oct 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-10-04-developer-call/</guid><description>Name: c-lightning developer call
Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Dust HTLC exposure (Lisa Neigut) Antoine Riard email to the Lightning dev mailing list: https://lists.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-09-20-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 20 Sep 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-09-20-developer-call/</guid><description>Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Video: No video posted online
Agenda: https://hackmd.io/@cdecker/Sy-9vZIQt
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Individual updates Let’s start with a quick round of updates from the team.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-09-06-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 06 Sep 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-09-06-developer-call/</guid><description>Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Date: September 6th 2021
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Individual updates I’ve been mostly shepherding the pull requests on c-lightning and looking into issues we need to fix for the coming release.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-08-23-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 23 Aug 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-08-23-developer-call/</guid><description>Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Individual updates I’ve been working on connectd, we got that merged. It was not a big change.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar - Discreet Log Contracts</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2021-08-10-socratic-seminar-dlcs/</link><pubDate>Tue, 10 Aug 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2021-08-10-socratic-seminar-dlcs/</guid><description>Gist of resources discussed: https://gist.github.com/michaelfolkson/f5da6774c24f99dba5c6c16ec8d499e9
This event was livestreamed on YouTube and so comments are attributed to specific individuals by the name or pseudonym that was visible on the livestream. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be anonymized please get in touch.
Intro Michael Folkson (MF): Welcome to everyone on the call, welcome to people watching on YouTube. This is a Socratic Seminar, we’ve got a Zoom call and it is being livestreamed on YouTube.</description></item><item><title>c-lightning developer call</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-08-09-developer-call/</link><pubDate>Mon, 09 Aug 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/c-lightning/2021-08-09-developer-call/</guid><description>c-lightning developer call Topic: Various topics
Location: Jitsi online
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Individual updates Today I started to review some pull requests. I also finished my first draft of the paid order of the metrics plugin.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar - Taproot is locked in. What now?</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2021-07-20-socratic-seminar-taproot-rollout/</link><pubDate>Tue, 20 Jul 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2021-07-20-socratic-seminar-taproot-rollout/</guid><description>Gist of resources discussed: https://gist.github.com/michaelfolkson/0803271754f851530fe8242087859254
This event was livestreamed on YouTube and so comments are attributed to specific individuals by the name or pseudonym that was visible on the livestream. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be anonymized please get in touch.
Intro Michael Folkson (MF): Welcome to everyone on the call, welcome to anybody on YouTube. This is a Socratic Seminar on Taproot rollout or Taproot support post activation in November.</description></item><item><title>Sydney Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2021-07-06-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Tue, 06 Jul 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2021-07-06-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Name: Socratic Seminar
Topic: Fee bumping and layer 2 protocols
Location: Bitcoin Sydney (online)
Video: No video posted online
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Agenda: https://github.com/bitcoin-sydney/socratic/blob/master/README.md#2021-07
First IRC workshop on L2 onchain support: https://lists.</description></item><item><title>Sydney Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2021-06-01-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Tue, 01 Jun 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2021-06-01-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Topic: Agenda in Google Doc below
Video: No video posted online
Google Doc of the resources discussed: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1E9mzB7fmzPxZ74WZg0PsJfLwjpVZ7OClmRdGQQFlzoY/
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Bitcoin Problems (Lloyd Fournier) https://bitcoin-problems.github.io/
This is Bitcoin Problems, it is a Jekyll website I put on GitHub.</description></item><item><title>Sydney Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2021-02-23-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Tue, 23 Feb 2021 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2021-02-23-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Topic: Agenda in Google Doc below
Video: No video posted online
Google Doc of the resources discussed: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VAP4LNjHHVLy9RJwpQ8LqXEUw79z5TTZxr9du_Z0-9A/
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
PoDLEs revisited (Lloyd Fournier) https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2021-January/002929.html
We’ll start with me talking about my research into UTXO probing attacks on Lightning in the dual funding proposal.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar 20</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2020-11-30-socratic-seminar-20/</link><pubDate>Mon, 30 Nov 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2020-11-30-socratic-seminar-20/</guid><description>SF Bitcoin Devs socratic seminar #20
((Names anonymized.))
XX01: For everyone new who has joined- this is an experiment for us. We&amp;rsquo;ll see how this first online event goes. So far no major issues. Nice background, Uyluvolokutat. Should we let Harkenpost in?
XX06: People around America are showing up since they don&amp;rsquo;t have to show up in person.
XX01: How do we block NY IPs?
XX06: We already have people from Western Africa joining.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-08-25-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Tue, 25 Aug 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-08-25-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Name: Socratic Seminar
Topic: Agenda in Google Doc below
Location: Bitcoin Sydney (online)
Video: No video posted online
Last month’s Sydney Socratic: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-07-21-socratic-seminar/
Google Doc of the resources discussed: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rJxVznWaFHKe88s5GyrxOW-RFGTeD_GKdFzHNvhrq-c/
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar - Signet</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-08-19-socratic-seminar-signet/</link><pubDate>Wed, 19 Aug 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-08-19-socratic-seminar-signet/</guid><description>Pastebin of the resources discussed: https://pastebin.com/rAcXX9Tn
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Intro Michael Folkson (MF): This is a Socratic Seminar organized by London BitDevs. We have a few in the past. We had a couple on BIP-Schnorr and BIP-Taproot that were really good with Pieter Wuille, Russell O’Connor and various other people joined those.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/chicago-bitdevs/2020-08-12-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Wed, 12 Aug 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/chicago-bitdevs/2020-08-12-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Topic: Agenda below
Video: No video posted online
BitDevs Solo Socratic 4 agenda: https://bitdevs.org/2020-07-31-solo-socratic-4
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Bitcoin Core P2P IRC Meetings https://github.com/bitcoin-core/bitcoin-devwiki/wiki/P2P-IRC-meetings
They are starting P2P meetings for the Bitcoin protocol now.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-07-21-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Tue, 21 Jul 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-07-21-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Name: Socratic Seminar
Topic: Agenda in Google Doc below
Location: Bitcoin Sydney (online)
Video: No video posted online
Last month’s Sydney Socratic: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-06-23-socratic-seminar/
Google Doc of the resources discussed: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Aw_llsP8xSipp7l6JqjSpaqw5qN1vXRqhOyeulqmXcg/
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar - BIP Taproot (BIP 341)</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-07-21-socratic-seminar-bip-taproot/</link><pubDate>Tue, 21 Jul 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-07-21-socratic-seminar-bip-taproot/</guid><description>Pastebin of the resources discussed: https://pastebin.com/vsT3DNqW
Transcript of Socratic Seminar on BIP-Schnorr: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-06-16-socratic-seminar-bip-schnorr/
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Introductions Michael Folkson (MF): This is a Socratic Seminar on BIP-Taproot. Sorry for the delay for the people on the YouTube livestream.</description></item><item><title>Sapio: Stateful Smart Contracts for Bitcoin with OP_CTV</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/vr-bitcoin/2020-07-11-jeremy-rubin-sapio-101/</link><pubDate>Sat, 11 Jul 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/vr-bitcoin/2020-07-11-jeremy-rubin-sapio-101/</guid><description>Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1X4AGNXJ5yCeHRrf5sa9DarWfDyEkm6fFUlrcIRQtUw4/
utxos.org website: https://utxos.org/
Intro (Udi Wertheimer) Today we are joined by Jeremy Rubin who is a Bitcoin Core contributor and the co-founder of the MIT Bitcoin Project. He is involved in a tonne of other cool stuff. He is also championing BIP 119 which is OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY. He is going to tell us about that and how it allows for new types of smart contracts.
Intro Hey. Thanks for coming on your Saturday morning, I appreciate everyone making it out.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar 10</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/chicago-bitdevs/2020-07-08-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Wed, 08 Jul 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/chicago-bitdevs/2020-07-08-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Location: Chicago BitDevs (online)
Video: No video posted online
Reddit link of the resources discussed: https://old.reddit.com/r/chibitdevs/
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Tainting, CoinJoin, PayJoin, CoinSwap Bitcoin dev mailing list post (Nopara) https://lists.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-06-23-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Tue, 23 Jun 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-06-23-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Name: Socratic Seminar
Topic: Agenda in Google Doc below
Location: Bitcoin Sydney (online)
Video: No video posted online
Last month’s Sydney Socratic: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-05-19-socratic-seminar/
Google Doc of the resources discussed: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1TKVOScS0Ms52Vwb33n4cwCzQIkY1kjBj9UioKkkR9Xo/
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar - Coinswap</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-06-23-socratic-seminar-coinswap/</link><pubDate>Tue, 23 Jun 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-06-23-socratic-seminar-coinswap/</guid><description>Pastebin of the resources discussed: https://pastebin.com/zbegGmb8
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Introductions Michael Folkson (MF): This is London BitDevs, this is a Socratic Seminar. We had two events last week so it is great to see so many people on the call.</description></item><item><title>Segwit, PSBT Vulnerability</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/la-bitdevs/2020-06-18-luke-dashjr-segwit-psbt-vulnerability/</link><pubDate>Thu, 18 Jun 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/la-bitdevs/2020-06-18-luke-dashjr-segwit-psbt-vulnerability/</guid><description>SegWit/PSBT vulnerability (CVE-2020-14199)
Location: LA BitDevs (online)
CVE: https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2020-14199
Trezor blog post on the vulnerability: https://blog.trezor.io/latest-firmware-updates-correct-possible-segwit-transaction-vulnerability-266df0d2860
Greg Sanders Bitcoin dev mailing list post in April 2017: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2017-August/014843.html
The vulnerability The way Bitcoin transactions are encoded in the software is there is a list of coins essentially and then there is a list of destinations and the amount being sent to each destination. The destinations do not include the fee. Nothing in the transaction tells you what the fee of the transaction is.</description></item><item><title>Taproot and Schnorr Multisignatures</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-06-17-tim-ruffing-schnorr-multisig/</link><pubDate>Wed, 17 Jun 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-06-17-tim-ruffing-schnorr-multisig/</guid><description>Location: London Bitcoin Devs (online)
Slides: https://slides.com/real-or-random/taproot-and-schnorr-multisig
Transcript of the previous day’s Socratic Seminar on BIP-Schnorr: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-06-16-socratic-seminar-bip-schnorr/
Intro (Michael Folkson) We are now live. This is London Bitcoin Devs with Tim Ruffing. We had the Socratic Seminar yesterday, I think we have some people on the call that were at the Socratic Seminar. That was brilliant. Thanks to Tim, Pieter, Greg, waxwing and everyone for showing up and taking 2 and a half hours out of their day.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar - BBIP Schnorr (BIP 340)</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-06-16-socratic-seminar-bip-schnorr/</link><pubDate>Tue, 16 Jun 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-06-16-socratic-seminar-bip-schnorr/</guid><description>Pastebin of the resources discussed: https://pastebin.com/uyktht33
August 2020 update: Since this Socratic on BIP Schnorr there has been a proposed change to the BIP revisting the squaredness tiebreaker for the R point.
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have given permission for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.</description></item><item><title>CoinSwaps</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/wasabi/research-club/2020-06-15-coinswap/</link><pubDate>Mon, 15 Jun 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/wasabi/research-club/2020-06-15-coinswap/</guid><description>Intro (Aviv Milner) Today we are talking about CoinSwaps, massively improving Bitcoin privacy and fungibility. A lot of excitement about CoinSwaps so hopefully we can touch on some interesting things.
CoinSwaps (Belcher 2020) https://gist.github.com/chris-belcher/9144bd57a91c194e332fb5ca371d0964
This is a 2020 ongoing GitHub research paper that Chris Belcher has been working on. You can view the original file here. It is heavily based on the 2013 work by Greg Maxwell.
Wasabi Research Club Just a reminder of what we have been doing.</description></item><item><title>Revault - A Multiparty Vault Architecture</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-05-26-kevin-loaec-antoine-poinsot-revault/</link><pubDate>Tue, 26 May 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-05-26-kevin-loaec-antoine-poinsot-revault/</guid><description>Location: London Bitcoin Devs (online)
Kevin slides: https://www.dropbox.com/s/rj45ebnic2m0q2m/kevin%20loaec%20revault%20slides.pdf?dl=0
Antoine slides: https://www.dropbox.com/s/xaoior0goo37247/Antoine%20Poinsot%20Revault%20slides.odp?dl=0
Intro (Michael Folkson) This is London Bitcoin Devs. This is on Zoom and live-streaming on YouTube. Last week we had a Socratic Seminar on vaults, covenants and CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY. There is a video up for that. There is also a transcript, @btctranscripts on Twitter. Regarding questions Kevin and Antoine are going to pause during the presentation for questions and comments. We are not going to have interruptions so we will let them speak until they pass.</description></item><item><title>Magical Bitcoin</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/la-bitdevs/2020-05-21-alekos-filini-magical-bitcoin/</link><pubDate>Thu, 21 May 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/la-bitdevs/2020-05-21-alekos-filini-magical-bitcoin/</guid><description>Magical Bitcoin site: https://magicalbitcoin.org/
Magical Bitcoin wallet GitHub: https://github.com/MagicalBitcoin/magical-bitcoin-wallet
sipa’s Miniscript site: http://bitcoin.sipa.be/miniscript/
Andrew Poelstra Miniscript presentation at London Bitcoin Devs: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-02-04-andrew-poelstra-miniscript/
Andrew Poelstra Miniscript workshop at Advancing Bitcoin: https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/advancing-bitcoin/2020/2020-02-07-andrew-poelstra-miniscript/
Intro I am a developer, I work on Bitcoin. I came to Bitcoin pretty late compared to the people I work with. I started a couple of years ago working with Giacomo Zucco at BHB Network. I worked for a while at Blockstream and then I left.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-05-19-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Tue, 19 May 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sydney-bitcoin-meetup/2020-05-19-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Topic: Agenda in Google Doc below
Location: Bitcoin Sydney (online)
Video: No video posted online
Google Doc of the resources discussed: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hCTlQdt_dK6HerKNt0kl6X8HAeRh16VSAaEtrqcBvlw/
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who have expressed a preference for their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
0xB10C blog post on mempool observations https://b10c.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar - Vaults and OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-05-19-socratic-seminar-vaults/</link><pubDate>Tue, 19 May 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-05-19-socratic-seminar-vaults/</guid><description>Name: Socratic Seminar
Location: London BitDevs (online)
Pastebin of the resources discussed: https://pastebin.com/3Q8MSwky
Twitter announcement: https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1262821838654255104?s=20
The conversation has been anonymized by default to protect the identities of the participants. Those who would prefer their comments to be attributed are attributed. If you were a participant and would like your comments to be attributed please get in touch.
Introductions Michael Folkson (MF): This is a London BitDevs Socratic Seminar. We are live-streaming on YouTube so please be aware of that for the guys and girls on the call.</description></item><item><title>Oliver Gugger, LSAT</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/vr-bitcoin/2020-05-16-oliver-gugger-lsat/</link><pubDate>Sat, 16 May 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/vr-bitcoin/2020-05-16-oliver-gugger-lsat/</guid><description>Topic: LSAT - Your Ticket Aboard The Lightning Native Web
Location: Reckless VR
Intro Happy to be here to talk about LSAT, let’s jump right in. We are going to have a look at LSAT. What the motivation was to come up with this? What the use cases for and we are going to jump into the technical detail. This is going to be a technical talk. There will be some low level details.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar Payjoins - Bitcoin privacy (Payjoin/P2EP)</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-05-05-socratic-seminar-payjoins/</link><pubDate>Tue, 05 May 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-05-05-socratic-seminar-payjoins/</guid><description>Adam Gibson Pastebin on Payjoin resources: https://pastebin.com/rgWVuNrC
6102bitcoin resources on Payjoin/P2EP: https://github.com/6102bitcoin/CoinJoin-Research/blob/master/CoinJoin_Research/CoinJoin_Theory/P2EP/summary.md
Transaction fingerprinting discussion: https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WalletWasabi/issues/3625
BitDevs resources on Coinjoin: https://bitdevs.org/2020-02-19-whitepaper-series-11-coinjoin
The conversation has been anonymized to protect the identities of the participants.
Intro (Michael Folkson) We are live, London BitDevs Socratic Seminar on Bitcoin privacy with Adam Gibson. This is a live call on Jitsi. We are streaming on YouTube so bear that in mind. Thanks to Jeff from Fulmo for helping us set this up.</description></item><item><title>Grokking Bitcoin</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-04-29-kalle-rosenbaum-grokking-bitcoin/</link><pubDate>Wed, 29 Apr 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-04-29-kalle-rosenbaum-grokking-bitcoin/</guid><description>Location: London Bitcoin Devs (online)
Slides: http://rosenbaum.se/ldnbitcoindev/drawing.sozi.html
Book: http://rosenbaum.se/book/
Intro (Michael Folkson) Welcome to this London Bitcoin Devs online. We will be joined by Kalle Rosenbaum, the author of Grokking Bitcoin. In terms of London Bitcoin Devs you can follow us on Twitter at ldnbitcoindevs. We have a YouTube channel where we have a bunch of presentations from the last two years from people like John Newbery, Matt Corallo and Andrew Poelstra.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar - Grokking Bitcoin</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-04-22-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Wed, 22 Apr 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-04-22-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Name: Socratic Seminar
Location: London BitDevs (online)
The conversation has been anonymized to protect the identity of the participants.
Discussion of Hopin video conferencing software We tested this a few weeks back for a German meetup and it was pretty nice. It was reliable and it worked. Of course it is not open source and Jitsi could be much better. We were quite happy with the experience. We are looking to do the Value of Bitcoin conference on this platform.</description></item><item><title>Laolu, Joost, Oliver - Lnd0.10</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/vr-bitcoin/2020-04-18-laolu-joost-oliver-lnd0.10/</link><pubDate>Sat, 18 Apr 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/vr-bitcoin/2020-04-18-laolu-joost-oliver-lnd0.10/</guid><description>Topic: lnd v0.10
Location: Virtual Reality (VR Bitcoin)
Intro (Laolu Osuntokun) Thanks everyone for coming. This is my first time doing a VR presentation, really cool. I am going to be talking about lnd 0.10. Right now we are on rc2, the next major lnd release, it has a bunch of cool features, bug fixes, optimizations. I am going to talk about some big ticket features in 0.10. There are a bunch of other features that you are going to want to check out in the release notes.</description></item><item><title>Attacking Bitcoin Core</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/la-bitdevs/2020-04-16-amiti-uttarwar-attacking-bitcoin-core/</link><pubDate>Thu, 16 Apr 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/la-bitdevs/2020-04-16-amiti-uttarwar-attacking-bitcoin-core/</guid><description>Intro I’m going to talk to you today about attacking Bitcoin Core.
Bitcoin To start with the fundamentals. As we all know Bitcoin is a money and it is different to our existing centralized solution of money because instead we have nodes that are running all around the world.
Consensus Fundamentally what is required for this to work is the idea of consensus where all the nodes must agree on the same fundamental values.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar 6</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2020-02-24-socratic-seminar-6/</link><pubDate>Mon, 24 Feb 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2020-02-24-socratic-seminar-6/</guid><description>https://www.meetup.com/Austin-Bitcoin-Developers/events/268812642/
https://bitdevs.org/2020-02-12-socratic-seminar-101
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1232132693179207682
Introduction Alrighty, let&amp;rsquo;s get started. Gather around. Phil could use some company here. Nobody likes the front row. Maybe the benches. So I have a little different format for how I want to do it this week. Usually I cover a broad series of topics that I steal from the New York&amp;rsquo;s meetup list. Going through that, I thought there was something that looked interesting which was the new taproot proposals that were finally posted by Pieter Wuille.</description></item><item><title>Hardware Wallets in Bitcoin Core</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-02-05-andrew-chow-hardware-wallets/</link><pubDate>Wed, 05 Feb 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-02-05-andrew-chow-hardware-wallets/</guid><description>Slides: https://www.dropbox.com/s/k02o32d0pagac4r/Andrew%20Chow%20slides.pdf
BIP174 (PSBT): https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0174.mediawiki
PSBT Howto for Bitcoin Core: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/psbt.md
Introduction Hey everyone. As you may have guessed I’m Andrew Chow. I’m Engineer at Blockstream and I also work on Bitcoin Core a lot, mostly in the wallet. I am going to be talking about hardware wallets and a bit history with them in Core and also how to integrate them in Core and how we are integrating them into Core.</description></item><item><title>Miniscript</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-02-04-andrew-poelstra-miniscript/</link><pubDate>Tue, 04 Feb 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-02-04-andrew-poelstra-miniscript/</guid><description>Bitcoin Script to Miniscript
London Bitcoin Devs
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1237071807699718146
Slides: https://www.dropbox.com/s/au6u6rczljdc86y/Andrew%20Poelstra%20-%20Miniscript.pdf?dl=0
Introduction As Michael mentioned I’ve got like two hours. Hopefully I won’t get close to that but you guys are welcome to interrupt and ask questions. I’ve given a couple of talks about Miniscript usually in like 20 or 30 minute time slots where I try to give a high level overview of what this project is, why should you use it and why it makes Bitcoin script accessible in ways that it hasn’t been.</description></item><item><title>Trace Net</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-02-04-james-chiang-trace-net/</link><pubDate>Tue, 04 Feb 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-02-04-james-chiang-trace-net/</guid><description>Bitcoin Trace-Net
Location: London Bitcoin Devs
Slides: https://www.dropbox.com/s/99md18bnnl8jnnw/James%20Chiang%20-%20Bitcoin%20Trace%20Net.pdf
Intro Good evening. My name is James and it is a real privilege to give this talk right after Andrew (Poelstra) has primed the entire audience on Miniscript. That’s pretty awesome. I learned a lot of things even though I coded the stuff that they have on Pieter’s website the actual justification and reasoning behind a lot of the decisions they made in the language were very insightful.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar 5</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2020-01-21-socratic-seminar-5/</link><pubDate>Tue, 21 Jan 2020 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2020-01-21-socratic-seminar-5/</guid><description>https://www.meetup.com/Austin-Bitcoin-Developers/events/267941700/
https://bitdevs.org/2019-12-03-socratic-seminar-99
https://bitdevs.org/2020-01-09-socratic-seminar-100
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1219817063948148737
LSATs So we usually start off with a lightning-based project demo that he has been working on for a few months.
This is not an original idea to me. This was presented by roasbeef, co-founder of Lightning Labs at the Lightning conference last October. I worked on a project that did something similar. When he presented this as a more formalized specification, it made a lot of sense based on what I was working on.</description></item><item><title>BIP Taproot and BIP Tapscript</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2019-12-16-bip-taproot-bip-tapscript/</link><pubDate>Mon, 16 Dec 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2019-12-16-bip-taproot-bip-tapscript/</guid><description>slides: https://prezi.com/view/AlXd19INd3isgt3SvW8g/
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1208438837845929987
https://twitter.com/SFBitcoinDevs/status/1206678306721894400
bip-taproot: https://github.com/sipa/bips/blob/bip-schnorr/bip-taproot.mediawiki
bip-tapscript: https://github.com/sipa/bips/blob/bip-schnorr/bip-tapscript.mediawiki
bip-schnorr: https://github.com/sipa/bips/blob/bip-schnorr/bip-schnorr.mediawiki
Please try to find seats. Today we have a special treat. We have Pieter here, who is well known as a contributor to Bitcoin Core, stackexchange, the mailing list, and he has been around forever. He&amp;rsquo;s the author of multiple BIPs. Today he is going to talk about taproot and tapscript which is basically what the whole Schnorr movement thing became.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar 4</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-11-19-socratic-seminar-4/</link><pubDate>Tue, 19 Nov 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-11-19-socratic-seminar-4/</guid><description>https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1196947713658626048
Wallet standards organization (WSO) Make an economic argument for vendors to join an organization and put in some money or effort to build the organization. The economic argument is that the committed members have some level of funds committed, representing some X number of users, and X billion dollars of custodied funds. This can then be used as a compelling argument to get each organization to join and bootstrap the standards body.</description></item><item><title>Current state of P2P research in Bitcoin /Erlay</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2019-11-13-gleb-naumenko-p2p-erlay/</link><pubDate>Wed, 13 Nov 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2019-11-13-gleb-naumenko-p2p-erlay/</guid><description>London Bitcoin Devs
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1201861687097352198
Introduction My name is Gleb. I’ve worked on Bitcoin stuff since 2015, building wallets and exchanges in Ukraine. Then I realized that I can do more fun stuff. I want to do more protocol research, improving Bitcoin itself, not just using it. I decided I will go to Canada to do a Masters. I started working on this topic on research stuff more precisely and I realized that not many people do work on peer-to-peer (P2P) of Bitcoin.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar 3</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-10-14-socratic-seminar-3/</link><pubDate>Mon, 14 Oct 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-10-14-socratic-seminar-3/</guid><description>https://www.meetup.com/Austin-Bitcoin-Developers/events/265295570/
https://bitdevs.org/2019-09-16-socratic-seminar-96
We have sort of done two meetups in this format. The idea here is that in NY there&amp;rsquo;s BitDevs which is one of the oldest meetups. This has been going on for five years. They have a format called socratic where they have a talented guy named J who leads them through some topics and they try to get some discussion going on and pull from expertise in the audience.</description></item><item><title>Socratic Seminar 2</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-08-22-socratic-seminar-2/</link><pubDate>Thu, 22 Aug 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-08-22-socratic-seminar-2/</guid><description>https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1164710800910692353
Introduction Hello. The idea was to do a more socratic style meetup. This was popularized by Bitdevs NYC and spread to SF. We tried this a few months ago with Jay. The idea is we run through research news, newsletters, podcasters, talk about what happened in the technical bitcoin community. We&amp;rsquo;re going to have different presenters.
Mike Schmidt is going to talk about some optech newsletters that he has been contributing to.</description></item><item><title>Submarine Swaps</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2019-07-03-alex-bosworth-submarine-swaps/</link><pubDate>Wed, 03 Jul 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2019-07-03-alex-bosworth-submarine-swaps/</guid><description>London Bitcoin Devs
Submarine Swaps and Loop
Slides: https://www.dropbox.com/s/cyh97jv81hrz8tf/alex-bosworth-submarine-swaps-loop.pdf?dl=0
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1151158631527849985
Intro Thanks for inviting me. I’m going to talk about submarine swaps and Lightning Loop which is something that I work on at Lightning Labs.
Bitcoin - One Currency, Multiple Settlement Networks Something that is pretty important to understand about Lightning is that it is a flow network so once you set up your channels and you’re in a network of channels with other people, the balances can only shift along flow properties of the network.</description></item><item><title>Hardware Wallets</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-06-29-hardware-wallets/</link><pubDate>Sat, 29 Jun 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-06-29-hardware-wallets/</guid><description>https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1145019634547978240
see also:
Extracting seeds from hardware wallets The future of hardware wallets coredev.tech 2019 hardware wallets discussion Background A bit more than a year ago, I went through Jimmy Song&amp;rsquo;s Programming Blockchain class. That&amp;rsquo;s where I met M where he was the teaching assistant. Basically, you write a python bitcoin library from scratch. The API for this library and the classes and fnuctions that Jimmy uses is very easy to read and understand.</description></item><item><title>Drivechain</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-05-27-drivechain-paul-sztorc/</link><pubDate>Mon, 27 May 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2019-05-27-drivechain-paul-sztorc/</guid><description>Drivechain: An interoperability layer-2, Described in terms of the lightning network- something you already understand
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1133202672570519552
About me Okay. So here&amp;rsquo;s some things about myself. I&amp;rsquo;ve been a bitcoiner since 2012. I&amp;rsquo;ve published bitcoin research on truthcoin.info blog. I&amp;rsquo;ve presented at Scaling Bitcoin 1, 2, 3, 4, tabconf, and Building on Bitcoin. My background is in economics and statistics. I worked at Yale Econ Department as a statistician for 2.5 years.</description></item><item><title>Lnd 0.6 Beta</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2019-05-02-conner-fromknecht-lnd-0.6-beta/</link><pubDate>Thu, 02 May 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2019-05-02-conner-fromknecht-lnd-0.6-beta/</guid><description>Conner Fromknecht
SF Lightning Devs
LND 0.6 Beta Deep Dive
Intro lnd 0.6 was about seven months in the making. There’s more things that we could fit into this talk alone but I cherrypicked some of the highlights and things that will have some real world impact on users of the network or people who are using the API or just generally users of lnd. The high level impact on the network going forward and how we plan to scale up for the next 100K channels that come onto the network.</description></item><item><title>Hardware Wallets (History of Attacks)</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2019-05-01-stepan-snigirev-hardware-wallet-attacks/</link><pubDate>Wed, 01 May 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2019-05-01-stepan-snigirev-hardware-wallet-attacks/</guid><description>Slides: https://www.dropbox.com/s/64s3mtmt3efijxo/Stepan%20Snigirev%20on%20hardware%20wallet%20attacks.pdf
Pieter Wuille on anti covert channel signing techniques: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2020-March/017667.html
Introduction This talk is the second in the series after my previous talk in London a few months ago at the Advancing Bitcoin conference. There I was talking mostly about general attacks on hardware, more from the theoretical perspective. I didn’t say anything bad hardware wallets that exist and I didn’t specify anything on the bad side. Here I feel a bit more free as it is a meetup not a conference so I can say bad things about everyone.</description></item><item><title>Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2019-03-15-partially-signed-bitcoin-transactions/</link><pubDate>Fri, 15 Mar 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2019-03-15-partially-signed-bitcoin-transactions/</guid><description>Topic: PSBT
Location: SF Bitcoin Devs
Introduction Andrew: So as Mark said I&amp;rsquo;m Andrew Chow and today I&amp;rsquo;m going to be talking about BIP 174, partially signed Bitcoin transactions, also known as PSBT. Today I&amp;rsquo;m going to be talking a bit about why we need PSBTs, or Partially Signed Bitcoin Transactions, what they are, and the actual format of the transaction itself and how to use a PSBT and the workflows around that.</description></item><item><title>Better Hashing through BetterHash</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2019-02-05-matt-corallo-betterhash/</link><pubDate>Tue, 05 Feb 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2019-02-05-matt-corallo-betterhash/</guid><description>Announcement of BetterHash on the mailing list: https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2018-June/016077.html
Draft BIP: https://github.com/TheBlueMatt/bips/blob/betterhash/bip-XXXX.mediawiki
Intro I am going to talk about BetterHash this evening. If you are coming to Advancing Bitcoin don’t worry I am talking about something completely different. You are not going to get duplicated content. That talk should be interesting as well though admittedly I haven’t written it yet. We’ll find out. BetterHash is a project that unfortunately has some naming collisions so it might get renamed at some point, I’ve been working on for about a year to redo mining and the way it works in Bitcoin.</description></item><item><title>Threshold Signatures and Accountability</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2019-02-04-threshold-signatures-and-accountability/</link><pubDate>Mon, 04 Feb 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2019-02-04-threshold-signatures-and-accountability/</guid><description>Slides: https://download.wpsoftware.net/bitcoin/wizardry/2019-02-sfdevs-threshold/slides.pdf
Transcript completed by: Bryan Bishop Edited by: Michael Folkson
Twitter announcement: https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1092665108960968704
Introduction (Mark Erhardt) Sorry for the delays. We&amp;rsquo;re finally ready to talk. Welcome to our talk. We&amp;rsquo;d like to thank our sponsors including Blockstream and Digital Garage. Today we have Andrew Poelstra to talk about threshold signatures and accountability. He is known for working on Mimblewimble, Bitcoin Core, libsecp256k1, and at Blockstream.
Introduction (Andrew Poelstra) Today I am here to talk about threshold signatures and accountable signatures and a whole bunch of signature work I’ve been doing with Pieter Wuille, Jonas Nick and Tim Ruffing and a few other people over the last year or so.</description></item><item><title>Unchained Capital Socratic Seminar</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/misc/2019-01-05-unchained-capital-socratic-seminar/</link><pubDate>Sat, 05 Jan 2019 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/misc/2019-01-05-unchained-capital-socratic-seminar/</guid><description>Unchained Capital Bitcoin Socratic Seminar
Socratic Seminar 87 at BitDevs NYC has all of the links on meetup.com available.
https://www.meetup.com/BitDevsNYC/events/256924041/
https://www.meetup.com/Austin-Bitcoin-Developers/events/257718282/
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1081674259880120323
Last time Last time Andrew Poelstra gave a talk about research at Blockstream. He also talked about scriptless scripts and using the properties of Schnorr signatures to do all of your scripting. There was also talk about taproot and graftroot.
J: The chaincode labs guys in NYC .. we had a lot of participation, it was very cool.</description></item><item><title>Bitcoin Core and hardware wallets</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2018-09-19-sjors-provoost-core-hardware-wallet/</link><pubDate>Wed, 19 Sep 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2018-09-19-sjors-provoost-core-hardware-wallet/</guid><description>Topic: Using Bitcoin Core with hardware wallets
Location: London Bitcoin Devs
Slides: https://github.com/Sjors/presentations/blob/master/2018-09-19%20London%20Bitcoin%20Devs/2018-09%20London%20Bitcoin%20Devs%200.5.pdf
Core, HWI docs: https://hwi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples/bitcoin-core-usage.html
Introduction I am Sjors, I am going to show you how to use, you probably shouldn’t try this at home, the Bitcoin Core wallet directly with a hardware wallet. Most of that work is done by Andrew Chow. I’m just showing how it works. I will have some thoughts of my own on how that could be made more user friendly.</description></item><item><title>Bitcoin CLI and Regtest</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2018-08-17-richard-bondi-bitcoin-cli-regtest/</link><pubDate>Fri, 17 Aug 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/2018-08-17-richard-bondi-bitcoin-cli-regtest/</guid><description>Clone this repo to follow along: https://github.com/austin-bitcoin-developers/regtest-dev-environment
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1161266116293009408
Intro So the goal here as Justin said is to get the regtest environment set up. The advantages he mentioned, there is also the advantage that you can mine your own coins at will so you don’t have to mess around with testnet faucets. You can generate blocks as well so you don’t have to wait for six confirmations or whatever or even the ten minutes.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Network BOLT by BOLT</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/misc/2018-07-24-la-blockchain-jim-posen-lightning-bolt-by-bolt/</link><pubDate>Tue, 24 Jul 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/misc/2018-07-24-la-blockchain-jim-posen-lightning-bolt-by-bolt/</guid><description>Topic: Lightning Network BOLT by BOLT
Location: LA Blockchain Meetup
Transcript by: glozow
Introduction I&amp;rsquo;m Jim from the protocol team at Coinbase. We work on open source stuff in the crypto space. We just contribute to projects like Bitcoin core. The reason I&amp;rsquo;m talking about this is I&amp;rsquo;ve been contributing on and off to one of the major lightning implementations lnd for the past eight months or so.
This is gonna be a fairly technical talk.</description></item><item><title>Bitcoin Full Nodes</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2018-07-23-john-light-bitcoin-full-nodes/</link><pubDate>Mon, 23 Jul 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2018-07-23-john-light-bitcoin-full-nodes/</guid><description>John Light blog post on soft forks and hard forks: https://medium.com/@lightcoin/the-differences-between-a-hard-fork-a-soft-fork-and-a-chain-split-and-what-they-mean-for-the-769273f358c9
Intro My presentation today is going to be about Bitcoin full nodes. Everything you wanted to know and more. There should perhaps be an asterisk because I’m not going to say literally everything but if anyone in the audience has any questions that want to go really deep down the rabbit hole then we’ll see just how far down we can go.</description></item><item><title>Taproot, Schnorr signatures, and SIGHASH_NOINPUT</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2018-07-09-taproot-schnorr-signatures-and-sighash-noinput-oh-my/</link><pubDate>Mon, 09 Jul 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2018-07-09-taproot-schnorr-signatures-and-sighash-noinput-oh-my/</guid><description>https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1021880538020368385
slides: https://prezi.com/view/YkJwE7LYJzAzJw9g1bWV/
Introduction I am Pieter Wuille. I will just dive in. Today I want to talk about improvements to the bitcoin scripting language. There is feedback in the microphone. Okay.
I will mostly be talking about improvements to the bitcoin scripting language. This is by no means an exhaustive list of all the things that are going on. It&amp;rsquo;s more my personal focus in the things that I am interested in and excited about seeing happen.</description></item><item><title>Unfairly Linear Signatures</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2018-06-12-adam-gibson-unfairly-linear-signatures/</link><pubDate>Tue, 12 Jun 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/2018-06-12-adam-gibson-unfairly-linear-signatures/</guid><description>Slides: https://joinmarket.me/static/schnorrplus.pdf
Intro This is supposed to be a developer meetup but this talk is going to be a little more on the theoretical side. The title is “Unfairly Linear Signatures” that is just a joke. It is talking about Schnorr signatures. They are something that could in the near future have a big practical significance in Bitcoin. I am not going to explain all the practical significance.
Outline To give you an outline, I will explain what all these terms mean and how they fit in shortly.</description></item><item><title>Bitcoin Core</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2018-04-23-jeremy-rubin-bitcoin-core/</link><pubDate>Mon, 23 Apr 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2018-04-23-jeremy-rubin-bitcoin-core/</guid><description>A hardCORE workout
Slides: https://drive.google.com/file/d/149Ta1WRXL5WEvnBdlL-HxmsFDXUbvFDy/view
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1152926849879760896
Intro Thank you very much for the warm welcome. So welcome to the hard core workout. It is not going to be that difficult but you can stretch if you need to. It is going to be a lot of material so I’m going to go a little bit fast. If you have any questions feel free to stop me in the middle. There’s a lot of material to get through so I might say “Hold it” or “Find me after” but if there is anything that would help your understanding fee free to classroom style raise your hand and I’ll try to answer it.</description></item><item><title>Exploring Lnd0.4</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2018-04-20-laolu-osuntokun-exploring-lnd0.4/</link><pubDate>Fri, 20 Apr 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2018-04-20-laolu-osuntokun-exploring-lnd0.4/</guid><description>Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pyQgGDUcB29r8DnTaS0GQS6usjw4CpgciQx_-XBVOwU/
The Genesis of lnd First, the genesis of lnd. Here is the first commit of lnd. It was October 27 2015. This is when I was in school still. This was done when I went on break and it was the first major…. we had in terms of code. We talked about the language we’re using, the licensing, the architecture of the daemon. A fun fact, the original name of lnd was actually called Plasma.</description></item><item><title>Bulletproofs</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/misc/2018-02-02-andrew-poelstra-bulletproofs/</link><pubDate>Fri, 02 Feb 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/misc/2018-02-02-andrew-poelstra-bulletproofs/</guid><description>49th Milan Bitcoin meetup
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/962326126969442304
https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/7w72pq/bulletproofs_presentation_at_feb_2_milan_meetup/
Introduction Alright. Thank you for that introduction, Giacamo. I am here to talk about bulletproofs. This is different from proof-of-bullets, which is what fiat currencies use. In bulletproofs, we use a zero-knowledge proof which has nothing to do with consensus at all, but it has a lot of exciting applications. The original motivation to create bulletproofs was for range proofs which are used in confidential transactions.</description></item><item><title>Bip150 Bip151</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-09-04-jonas-schnelli-bip150-bip151/</link><pubDate>Mon, 04 Sep 2017 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-09-04-jonas-schnelli-bip150-bip151/</guid><description>bip150 and bip151: Bitcoin p2p network encryption and authentication
https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0150.mediawiki
https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0151.mediawiki
https://btctranscripts.com/scalingbitcoin/milan-2016/bip151-peer-encryption/
Introduction Alright guys.. take a seat. ((various mumblings)) Want to thank our sponsors, Digital Garage (applause). Second order of business, if you guys could&amp;hellip; trash away.. that would be awesome. There are trash cans in the back and right there and right next to the drinks. So at the end of the night, that would be great. Jonas Schnelli is a bitcoin core developer and he is here to talk about bitcoin encryption and authentication on the p2p network.</description></item><item><title>Merkle Set Data Structures for Scaling Bitcoin</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-07-08-bram-cohen-merkle-sets/</link><pubDate>Sat, 08 Jul 2017 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-07-08-bram-cohen-merkle-sets/</guid><description>code: https://github.com/bramcohen/MerkleSet
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/888836850529558531
Introduction There&amp;rsquo;s been a fair amount of talk about putting UTXO commitments in bitcoin blocks. Whether this is a good idea or not, but on the off-chance that it might be a good idea, I spent a fair amount of time thinking and actually good merkle set implementation whic his what you you need to put utxo set commitments in bitcoin blocks. There are other benefits to this, in that there are actually a million and one uses for merkle sets in general, and it&amp;rsquo;s actually a general interesting problem and it performs well.</description></item><item><title>Neutrino: The Privacy Preserving Bitcoin Light Client</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-06-06-laolu-osuntokun-neutrino/</link><pubDate>Tue, 06 Jun 2017 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-06-06-laolu-osuntokun-neutrino/</guid><description>Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1vjJUWOZIaPshjx1svfE6rFZ2lC07n47ifOdzpKWqpb4/
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1054031024085258240
Introduction My name is Laolu or Roasbeef on the internet. I’m going to talk about light clients in general and then also what we’re working on in terms of light clients and then also how that factors into the lightning network itself. The talk is called Neutrino because that is the name of our new light client that has been released. There has been a BIP proposal and I’ll go through all of that in the talk itself.</description></item><item><title>Advanced Bitcoin Scripting</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-04-03-andreas-antonopoulos-bitcoin-scripting/</link><pubDate>Mon, 03 Apr 2017 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-04-03-andreas-antonopoulos-bitcoin-scripting/</guid><description>Mastering Bitcoin on GitHub: https://github.com/bitcoinbook/bitcoinbook
Intro Today’s talk is different from some of the other talks I’ve done so bear with me. We are going to do this slowly in a very casual manner. This is not one of my usual talks where I am going to tell you about big picture vision and stuff like that. What I want to do is talk about some interesting features of Bitcoin Script and explain them.</description></item><item><title>New Address Type For Segwit Addresses</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-03-29-new-address-type-for-segwit-addresses/</link><pubDate>Wed, 29 Mar 2017 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2017-03-29-new-address-type-for-segwit-addresses/</guid><description>Topic: Bech32 addresses for Bitcoin
Slides: https://prezi.com/gwnjkqjqjjbz/bech32-a-base32-address-format/
Proposal: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0173.mediawiki
Demo website: http://bitcoin.sipa.be/bech32/demo/demo.html
Twitter announcement: https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/847569047902273536
Transcript completed by: Bryan Bishop Edited by: Michael Folkson
Intro Can everyone hear me fine through this microphone? Anyone who can&amp;rsquo;t hear me please raise your hand. Oh wait. All good now? Tonight I will be speaking on a project I&amp;rsquo;ve been working on on and off for the past year or so, which is the question of what kind of addresses we will be using in Bitcoin in the future.</description></item><item><title>Mimblewimble</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2016-11-21-mimblewimble/</link><pubDate>Mon, 21 Nov 2016 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2016-11-21-mimblewimble/</guid><description>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aHTRlbCaUyM
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/801990263543648256
History As Denise said, I gave a talk in Milan about mimblewimble about a month ago (slides). This is more or less the same talk, but rebalanced a bit to try to emphasize what I think is important and add some history that has happened in the intervening time. I&amp;rsquo;ll get started.
Many of you have heard of mimblewimble. It&amp;rsquo;s been in the news. It has a catchy name.</description></item><item><title>Bcoin</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2016-09-28-christopher-jeffrey-bcoin/</link><pubDate>Wed, 28 Sep 2016 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2016-09-28-christopher-jeffrey-bcoin/</guid><description>Bcoin repo: https://github.com/bcoin-org/bcoin
Intro Hey everyone. I’m JJ with Purse. Tonight I want to talk to you about full nodes and full node implementations in general. In particular my project and the project we’ve been working on at Purse which is bcoin. A little history about me. I’ve actually given a presentation here before two years ago at the dev meetup. What I gave my talk on two years ago was actually the process of turning bitcoind into a shared object, into a library so you could link to it and call functions directly and call consensus code.</description></item><item><title>Dan Boneh</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoin-developers-miners-meeting-2016/dan-boneh/</link><pubDate>Mon, 01 Aug 2016 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoin-developers-miners-meeting-2016/dan-boneh/</guid><description>A conversation with Dan Boneh
Part of the challenge was that the Google Maps directions in the email were going down some roads that had construction&amp;hellip;. been here 10 minutes, and some arriving in another 10 minutes. They are building a new biology building. Large campus here. In whatever direction you walk, there are buildings and more buildings. In two years there will be a new biology building, and two years later there will be a new computer science building.</description></item><item><title>Cali 2016</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoin-developers-miners-meeting-2016/cali2016/</link><pubDate>Sat, 30 Jul 2016 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoin-developers-miners-meeting-2016/cali2016/</guid><description>California Gathering 2016
Transcription introduction Some Bitcoin developers and miners gathered together during the end of the July to socialize and become better acquainted with each other. The following discussions were live transcribed by an untrained volunteer with attribution removed as per Chatham House rules. In bitcoin, discussions can move very quickly, which can cause an increase in errors, including semantic errors, when typing in real time. This text was not produced from an audio recording.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Network</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2016-07-18-laolu-osuntokun-lightning-network/</link><pubDate>Mon, 18 Jul 2016 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2016-07-18-laolu-osuntokun-lightning-network/</guid><description>Lightning Network Deep Dive
Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OPijcjzadKkbxvGU6VcVnAeSD_DKb7gjnevBcqhPCW0/
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1052238088913788928
Introduction My name is Laolu Osuntokun and I work with Lightning guys and you know me as maybe Roasbeef from the internet, on GitHub, Twitter, everything else. I’ve been Roasbeef for the past 8 years and I’m still Roasbeef that’s how it works. I’m going to give you a deep dive into the lightning network. I remember like 2 years ago when I was learning about Bitcoin initially and I went to these Bitcoin dev meetups in Mission and there was a deep dive and Taariq was the MC there, super friendly guy.</description></item><item><title>Lightning Network As A Directed Graph Single Funded Channel Network Topology</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2016-04-11-lightning-network-as-a-directed-graph-single-funded-channel-network-topology/</link><pubDate>Mon, 11 Apr 2016 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2016-04-11-lightning-network-as-a-directed-graph-single-funded-channel-network-topology/</guid><description>http://lightning.network/
slides: http://diyhpl.us/~bryan/papers2/bitcoin/Lightning%20Network%20as%20Directed%20Graph%20Single-Funded%20Channel%20Topology%20-%20Tadge%20Dryja%20-%202016-04-11.pdf
Okay. Hello everyone. Yes, okay, great. Yes. Yeah, I&amp;rsquo;m working on Lightning Network. Bitcoin is great and fun to work on.
Basic super quick summary of Lightning I am going to re-cap lightning network real quick. The basic idea is to have channels between two nodes. A channel, from the perspective of the rest of the world, is just a 2-of-2 multisig output. You can&amp;rsquo;t even tell it&amp;rsquo;s multisig, you just see an address with a 3 in front of the address.</description></item><item><title>Key Tree Signatures</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2015-08-24-pieter-wuille-key-tree-signatures/</link><pubDate>Mon, 24 Aug 2015 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2015-08-24-pieter-wuille-key-tree-signatures/</guid><description>Slides: https://prezi.com/vsj95ns4ucu3/key-tree-signatures/
Blog post: https://blockstream.com/2015/08/24/en-treesignatures/
Intro For those who don’t know me I’m Pieter Wuille. I have been working on Bitcoin Core for a while but this is work I have been doing at Blockstream. Today I will be talking about Key Tree Signatures which is what I have been working on these past few weeks. It is an improvement to the multisig schemes that we want to support. This is an outline of my talk.</description></item><item><title>How Lightning.network can offer a solution for Bitcoin's scalability problems</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2015-05-26-lightning-network/</link><pubDate>Tue, 26 May 2015 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2015-05-26-lightning-network/</guid><description>http://lightning.network/
slides: https://lightning.network/lightning-network-presentation-sfbitcoinsocial-2015-05-26.pdf
Great to have you guys. They are going to talk about bitcoin&amp;rsquo;s scalability problems. There they are.
Okay, hi. So yeah, I titled it solutions because that sounds more positive than talking about problems. Joseph will go after that and talk about what needs to change and the economics and things like that. Okay, so I&amp;rsquo;ll start.
Bitcoin scalability. The thing that is on everyone&amp;rsquo;s mind is line 10 of consensus.</description></item><item><title>Scaling Bitcoin To Billions Of Transactions Per Day</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2015-02-23-scaling-bitcoin-to-billions-of-transactions-per-day/</link><pubDate>Mon, 23 Feb 2015 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/sf-bitcoin-meetup/2015-02-23-scaling-bitcoin-to-billions-of-transactions-per-day/</guid><description>http://lightning.network/
Joseph Poon joseph@lightning.network Thaddeus Dryja rx@awsomnet.org We&amp;rsquo;re doing a presentation on the lightning network and micropayments. Right now bitcoin faces some interesting problems, like transactions aren&amp;rsquo;t instant, and micropayments don&amp;rsquo;t work. The transaction fees are 1/10th of a cent or higher depending on the exchange rate. And, &amp;ldquo;bitcoin doesn&amp;rsquo;t scale&amp;rdquo; especially if you have a lot of micropayments. One megabyte blocks? Well, let&amp;rsquo;s increase them. What happens? Well, you go from 7 transactons per second with 1 megabyte with about 220 million transactions per year.</description></item><item><title>Bitcoin Core V0.17</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/jnewbery-bitcoin-core-v0.17/</link><pubDate>Mon, 01 Jan 0001 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/london-bitcoin-devs/jnewbery-bitcoin-core-v0.17/</guid><description>Bitcoin Core v0.17
slides: https://www.dropbox.com/s/9kt32069hoxmgnt/john-newbery-bitcoincore0.17.pptx
https://twitter.com/kanzure/status/1031960170027536384
Introduction I am John Newbery. I work on Bitcoin Core. This talk is going to be mostly about Bitcoin Core 0.17 which was branched on Monday. Hopefully the final release will be in the next couple of weeks.
whoami I live in New York and work at Chaincode Labs. I&amp;rsquo;m not actually a native born New Yorker. It&amp;rsquo;s nice to be back in London and talking with you guys about bitcoin.</description></item><item><title>Google Tech Talk (2016)</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoin-developers-miners-meeting-2016/jihan-wu-google-tech-talk/</link><pubDate>Mon, 01 Jan 0001 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/bitcoin-developers-miners-meeting-2016/jihan-wu-google-tech-talk/</guid><description>Bitcoin
Google Tech Talk
Okay so maybe we will start. Thank you for coming. We have about 25 folks here from the Bitcoin community, both miners and Core developers. Don&amp;rsquo;t know exactly what the definition of a Core developer is, but I guess I know one when I see one. So anyway, we&amp;rsquo;re lucky here to have Jihan Wu. He&amp;rsquo;s the co-founder of Bitmain, a leading Chinese bitcoin technology company and mining pool.</description></item><item><title>Gox (2014)</title><link>https://btctranscripts.com/texas-bitcoin-conference-2014/gox/</link><pubDate>Mon, 01 Jan 0001 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate><guid>https://btctranscripts.com/texas-bitcoin-conference-2014/gox/</guid><description>Ryan is a founder of BitBits. They donate to any charity in the US. BitBits was a 2013 Harvard Business School new venture finalist. Coming from Mass. As many of our speakers they have traveled a long way. Andreas from &amp;hellip; lawyer. Anti-money laundering specialist. He represents many companies for the transfer of money. He is a criminal defense attorney. He is a frequent speaker. On freedom too. All about freedom and frequent speakers at many money transmitting issues.</description></item></channel></rss>